>>> THIS IS AN NBC NEWS SPECIAL REPORT.
REPORT. HERE’S LESTER HOLT.
HERE’S LESTER HOLT. >> GOOD DAY, EVERYONE.
>> GOOD DAY, EVERYONE. WE’RE COMING ON THE AIR WITH
WE’RE COMING ON THE AIR WITH BREAKING NEWS.
BREAKING NEWS. DONALD TRUMP FORMER CAMPAIGN
DONALD TRUMP FORMER CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN PAUL MANAFORT HAS JUST
CHAIRMAN PAUL MANAFORT HAS JUST BEEN SENTENCED TO PRISON AGAIN.
BEEN SENTENCED TO PRISON AGAIN. THIS TIME IN U.S. DISTRICT COURT
THIS TIME IN U.S. DISTRICT COURT IN WASHINGTON AFTER PLEADING
IN WASHINGTON AFTER PLEADING GUILTY LAST SEPTEMBER TO
GUILTY LAST SEPTEMBER TO CONSPIRACY TO LAUNDER MONEY AND
CONSPIRACY TO LAUNDER MONEY AND CONSPIRACY TO OBSTRUCT JUSTICE.
CONSPIRACY TO OBSTRUCT JUSTICE. YOU’LL RECALL THIS FOLLOWS A
YOU’LL RECALL THIS FOLLOWS A SENTENCE OF 47 MONTHS IN PRISON
SENTENCE OF 47 MONTHS IN PRISON IN A SEPARATE CASE LAST WEEK IN
IN A SEPARATE CASE LAST WEEK IN VIRGINIA.
VIRGINIA. MANAFORT, A LONG-TIME REPUBLICAN
MANAFORT, A LONG-TIME REPUBLICAN PARTY OPERATIVE TURNED 70 ON
PARTY OPERATIVE TURNED 70 ON APRIL 1st, AND NOW FACES YEARS
APRIL 1st, AND NOW FACES YEARS BEHIND BARS.
BEHIND BARS. LET’S GO RIGHT TO OUR JUSTICE
LET’S GO RIGHT TO OUR JUSTICE CORRESPONDENT PETE WILLIAMS
CORRESPONDENT PETE WILLIAMS OUTSIDE THE FEDERAL COURTHOUSE
OUTSIDE THE FEDERAL COURTHOUSE IN WASHINGTON.
IN WASHINGTON. PETE, ADD IT UP FOR US.
PETE, ADD IT UP FOR US. >> SO, AFTER A LONG TONGUE
>> SO, AFTER A LONG TONGUE LASHING FROM THE JUDGE, THE
LASHING FROM THE JUDGE, THE SENTENCE TURNS OUT TO BE
SENTENCE TURNS OUT TO BE RELATIVELY LIGHT GIVEN THAT HE
RELATIVELY LIGHT GIVEN THAT HE COULD HAVE GOTTEN A MAXIMUM OF
COULD HAVE GOTTEN A MAXIMUM OF TEN YEARS IN PRISON ON THE TWO
TEN YEARS IN PRISON ON THE TWO COUNTS HE FACED.
COUNTS HE FACED. JUDGE AMY BERMAN JACKSON HAS
JUDGE AMY BERMAN JACKSON HAS SENTENCED HIM TO AN ADDITIONAL
SENTENCED HIM TO AN ADDITIONAL THREE AND A HALF YEARS.
THREE AND A HALF YEARS. NOW THE ACTUAL SENTENCE IS
NOW THE ACTUAL SENTENCE IS LONGER THAN THAT, BUT SOME OF IT
LONGER THAN THAT, BUT SOME OF IT OVERLAPS WITH WHAT HE WAS
OVERLAPS WITH WHAT HE WAS ALREADY SENTENCED ON IN THE
ALREADY SENTENCED ON IN THE VIRGINIA LAST YEAR, WHICH IS
VIRGINIA LAST YEAR, WHICH IS JUST SHY OF FOUR YEARS.
JUST SHY OF FOUR YEARS. SO YOU ADD THE THREE AND A HALF
SO YOU ADD THE THREE AND A HALF THAT HE GETS TODAY TO THE
THAT HE GETS TODAY TO THE ROUGHLY FOUR YEARS HE GOT LAST
ROUGHLY FOUR YEARS HE GOT LAST MONTH, THAT’S A TOTAL OF SEVEN
MONTH, THAT’S A TOTAL OF SEVEN AND A HALF YEARS.
AND A HALF YEARS. HE GETS CREDIT FOR THE ROUGHLY
HE GETS CREDIT FOR THE ROUGHLY NINE MONTHS THAT HE HAS SERVED
NINE MONTHS THAT HE HAS SERVED IN PRISON.
IN PRISON. HE’LL GET OUT OF PRISON WHEN
HE’LL GET OUT OF PRISON WHEN HE’S ROUGHLY 75 OR 76 YEARS OLD
HE’S ROUGHLY 75 OR 76 YEARS OLD DEPENDING ON WHETHER HE GETS
DEPENDING ON WHETHER HE GETS TIME OFF FOR GOOD BEHAVIOR.
TIME OFF FOR GOOD BEHAVIOR. NOW HE DID ADDRESS THE COURT
NOW HE DID ADDRESS THE COURT TODAY.
TODAY. HE SAID PLEASE LET ME AND MY
HE SAID PLEASE LET ME AND MY WIFE BE TOGETHER.
WIFE BE TOGETHER. WE NEED EACH OTHER.
WE NEED EACH OTHER. I AM SORRY FOR MY CONDUCT.
I AM SORRY FOR MY CONDUCT. THIS IS A BIT OF CONTRAST TO
THIS IS A BIT OF CONTRAST TO WHAT HAPPENED LAST WEEK WHEN HE
WHAT HAPPENED LAST WEEK WHEN HE DID NOT EXPRESS ANY REMORSE.
DID NOT EXPRESS ANY REMORSE. HE SAID, I AM A DIFFERENT PERSON
HE SAID, I AM A DIFFERENT PERSON THAN I WAS IN OCTOBER OF 2017
THAN I WAS IN OCTOBER OF 2017 WHEN HE WAS ARRESTED.
WHEN HE WAS ARRESTED. THIS APPARENTLY DID NOT IMPRESS
THIS APPARENTLY DID NOT IMPRESS JUDGE AMY BERMAN JACKSON AND SHE
JUDGE AMY BERMAN JACKSON AND SHE SAID IT’S HARD TO OVERSTATE THE
SAID IT’S HARD TO OVERSTATE THE NUMBER OF LIES AND THE AMOUNT OF
NUMBER OF LIES AND THE AMOUNT OF FRAUD HE PLEADED GUILTY TO
FRAUD HE PLEADED GUILTY TO COMMITTING, HIDING HIS INCOME
COMMITTING, HIDING HIS INCOME FROM THE IRS, HIDING IT FROM HIS
FROM THE IRS, HIDING IT FROM HIS OBLIGATION TO REPORT FOREIGN
OBLIGATION TO REPORT FOREIGN INCOME TO THE FEDERAL
INCOME TO THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.
GOVERNMENT. JUDGE JACKSON SAID SHE WAS
JUDGE JACKSON SAID SHE WAS SURPRISED THAT MANAFORT DID NOT
SURPRISED THAT MANAFORT DID NOT WRITE HIS OWN LETTER TO HER,
WRITE HIS OWN LETTER TO HER, WHICH IS A COMMON THING FOR
WHICH IS A COMMON THING FOR DEFENDANTS TO DO BEFORE THEIR
DEFENDANTS TO DO BEFORE THEIR SENTENCING AND SAID HIS ATTITUDE
SENTENCING AND SAID HIS ATTITUDE DURING THIS TRIAL ALL ALONG HAS
DURING THIS TRIAL ALL ALONG HAS BEEN LOOK WHAT THEY’VE DONE TO
BEEN LOOK WHAT THEY’VE DONE TO ME AND SHE SAID, HE SQUANDERED
ME AND SHE SAID, HE SQUANDERED HIS CHANCE TO PLEA FOR A LIGHTER
HIS CHANCE TO PLEA FOR A LIGHTER SENTENCE.
SENTENCE. HIS LAWYER SAID THAT HE WOULD
HIS LAWYER SAID THAT HE WOULD NOT HAVE BEEN SUBJECT TO ALL OF
NOT HAVE BEEN SUBJECT TO ALL OF THIS HIGH-PROFILE TRIAL IF IT
THIS HIGH-PROFILE TRIAL IF IT WAS NOT FOR THE FACT THAT HE
WAS NOT FOR THE FACT THAT HE SERVED FOR A SHORT TIME AS THE
SERVED FOR A SHORT TIME AS THE CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN FOR DONALD
CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN FOR DONALD TRUMP AND THAT ALL THAT
TRUMP AND THAT ALL THAT ATTENTION HAS TAKEN A HEAVY TOLL
ATTENTION HAS TAKEN A HEAVY TOLL ON HIM.
ON HIM. BUT THE JUDGE SAID NONE OF THAT
BUT THE JUDGE SAID NONE OF THAT MATTERS, THAT THE QUESTION OF
MATTERS, THAT THE QUESTION OF WHAT THE INDEPENDENT COUNSEL WAS
WHAT THE INDEPENDENT COUNSEL WAS RIGHT TO BRING THESE CHARGES OR
RIGHT TO BRING THESE CHARGES OR NOT DON’T COUNT.
NOT DON’T COUNT. HE’S PLEADED GUILTY AND HE’S
HE’S PLEADED GUILTY AND HE’S BEEN CONVICTED AND HAS TO BE
BEEN CONVICTED AND HAS TO BE SENTENCED FOR HIS CRIMES.
SENTENCED FOR HIS CRIMES. THE JUDGE DID START OUT THIS
THE JUDGE DID START OUT THIS ROUGHLY TWO AND A HALF HOUR
ROUGHLY TWO AND A HALF HOUR HEARING SAYING THAT HER SENTENCE
HEARING SAYING THAT HER SENTENCE TODAY IS NOT INTENDED TO BE A
TODAY IS NOT INTENDED TO BE A REVISION OF A SENTENCE THAT WAS
REVISION OF A SENTENCE THAT WAS IMPOSED LAST WEEK BY JUDGE
IMPOSED LAST WEEK BY JUDGE ELLIS.
ELLIS. BOTTOM LINE HERE, PAUL MANAFORT
BOTTOM LINE HERE, PAUL MANAFORT WHO TURNS 70 YEARS OLD ON APRIL
WHO TURNS 70 YEARS OLD ON APRIL 1st, IS NOW FACING A SENTENCE OF
1st, IS NOW FACING A SENTENCE OF ROUGHLY SEVEN AND A HALF YEARS
ROUGHLY SEVEN AND A HALF YEARS IN FEDERAL PRISON, MINUS THE
IN FEDERAL PRISON, MINUS THE NINE MONTHS HE’LL GET CREDIT FOR
NINE MONTHS HE’LL GET CREDIT FOR THE TIME HE’S ALREADY SERVED.
THE TIME HE’S ALREADY SERVED. BACK TO YOU.
BACK TO YOU. >> DID THE JUDGE EXPLICITLY
>> DID THE JUDGE EXPLICITLY MENTION THE OVERALL MUELLER
MENTION THE OVERALL MUELLER INVESTIGATION, COLLUSION, THOSE
INVESTIGATION, COLLUSION, THOSE SORTS OF THINGS?
SORTS OF THINGS? >> YES, SHE DID.
>> YES, SHE DID. THE REASON SHE DID IS BECAUSE
THE REASON SHE DID IS BECAUSE THE DEFENSE IN ITS SENTENCING
THE DEFENSE IN ITS SENTENCING MEMO BEFORE THIS HEARING SAID,
MEMO BEFORE THIS HEARING SAID, THERE HASN’T BEEN ANY COLLUSION
THERE HASN’T BEEN ANY COLLUSION AND THAT THAT’S BEEN SORT OF A
AND THAT THAT’S BEEN SORT OF A HANGING OVER THIS WHOLE TRIAL
HANGING OVER THIS WHOLE TRIAL AND THEY SAID YOU KNOW, THERE
AND THEY SAID YOU KNOW, THERE NEVER WAS ANY EVIDENCE THAT PAUL
NEVER WAS ANY EVIDENCE THAT PAUL MANAFORT HAD ANYTHING TO DO WITH
MANAFORT HAD ANYTHING TO DO WITH RUSSIAN MEDDLING IN THE ELECTION
RUSSIAN MEDDLING IN THE ELECTION AND THE JUDGE TODAY SAID THAT’S
AND THE JUDGE TODAY SAID THAT’S IRRELEVANT, THAT’S NOT WHAT HE
IRRELEVANT, THAT’S NOT WHAT HE WAS CHARGED WITH, THAT’S NOT
WAS CHARGED WITH, THAT’S NOT WHAT HE WILL BE SENTENCED FOR.
WHAT HE WILL BE SENTENCED FOR. HE WILL BE SENTENCED FOR HIDING
HE WILL BE SENTENCED FOR HIDING $16 MILLION IN FCCINCOME HE
$16 MILLION IN FCCINCOME HE RECEIVED FROM THE UKRAINIANS FOR
RECEIVED FROM THE UKRAINIANS FOR DOING POLITICAL CONSULTANT
DOING POLITICAL CONSULTANT OVERSEAS HE NEVER PAID TAXES ON
OVERSEAS HE NEVER PAID TAXES ON AND USED IT TO BUY REAL ESTATE
AND USED IT TO BUY REAL ESTATE AND FINANCE A LAVISH LIFESTYLE.